Since the beginning of Christianity, Christians have been persecuted.
Please locate with me 2 Corinthians chapter 11.
Paul experienced the persecution and referred to it in 2 Corinthians chapter 11 verses 23 to 25.
And it says,
Are they ministers of Christ?
I reply like a madman.
I am more outstandingly one.
I've done more work, been imprisoned more often, suffered countless beatings and experienced many near deaths.
Five times I received 40 strokes less one from the Jews.
Three times I was beaten with rods.
Once I was stoned, three times I experienced shipwreck.
A night in the day I've spent in the open sea.
Shortly after recounting his many difficulties in chapter 12 verse 10, Paul wrote,
So I take pleasure in weaknesses, in insults, in times of needs, in persecutions and difficulties for Christ.
For when I'm weak, I am powerful.
Of course, Paul took no pleasure in persecution itself.
But he rejoiced because of what can result from it, contributing to Jehovah's vindication.
Find the Philippians chapter 114 and then verse 18.
Persecution gives us also an opportunity to see Jehovah act in behalf of his people
and magnify his name.
It can lead to a fine witness.
In Philippians 1 verse 14 and 18, Paul wrote,
Now most of the brothers in the Lord have gained confidence because of my prison bonds
and they are showing all the more courage to speak the word of God fearlessly.
And verse 18, with what result, only that in every way, whether in pretense or in truth,
Christ is being proclaimed and I rejoice over this.
In fact, I will also keep on rejoicing.
Instead of weakening our relationship with Jehovah and our hope,
persecution can strengthen it.
In the discussion recorded at Romans chapter 5, 3 and 4, Paul explains,
Let us exalt while intribulations.
Endurance leads to an approved condition, the approved condition in turn to hope
and hope does not lead to disappointment.
There is no doubt that hope helps us mightily to endure persecution.
The Bible uses the word hope in different contexts.
It speaks of the hope of salvation, which can refer to spiritual salvation.
There is hope of surviving Armageddon.
There is hope of everlasting life on the paradise earth.
There is hope of immortality in heaven.
What hope was he talking about in Romans chapter 5, 3 and 4, about the heavenly hope?
Look at the context.
Romans 5, 2, and the second part of the verse says,
Let us rejoice based on the hope of the glory of God.
All Christians in the first century had the heavenly hope.
Their hope was not just that problems or well-conditions would be resolved
or that they would get healed from some sickness.
Their hope was the heavenly hope.
Colossians 1, 3 says, We always thank God when we pray for you
because of the hope that is being reserved for you in the heavens.
Now please turn to Romans chapter 8, verse 20 and 21.
The great crowd of Jehovah's Witnesses today hope that Jehovah will reward them in an earthly paradise.
Paul pointed to that hope when he wrote in Romans chapter 8, verse 20 and 21.
For the creation was subjected to futility, not by its own will,
but through the one who subjected it on the basis of hope,
that the creation itself will be also set free from enslavement to corruption
and have the glorious freedom of the children of God.
However, when Paul said in Romans chapter 12, verse 12,
rejoice in the hope ahead.
He meant the heavenly hope.
But the other sheep also can rejoice in the hope that's ahead of them.
So then we can all rejoice triumphantly.
The world's hope is dark, your hope is bright,
the world's hope is collapsing, your hope nearest fulfillment,
the world's hope is based on credulity, your hope is based on faith,
the world's hope leads to disappointment, your hope leads to success.
For with the new world, so very near, our fondest hopes,
whether heavenly or earthly, will soon be realized to our eternal satisfaction.
Let's read together Titus chapter 2, verse 13,
while we wait for the happy hope and glorious manifestation
of the great God and of our Savior Jesus Christ.
Furthermore, according to Romans 8, 24 and 25,
hope will help us to endure.
Hope that is seen is not hope.
But if we hope for what we do not see,
we keep on waiting for it with endurance, the Scripture says.
There are degrees of hope.
How can we strengthen or deepen our hope?
As to the term hope in the Bible,
the basic sense of the Greek term,
Elbis used here means expectation of good.
In this context, Paul mentions hope last in the series
after tribulation, endurance, and approved condition.
So he is obviously not referring to the initial hope
gained by accepting the good news from God.
Rather, he is referring to a reinforced hope
that a Christian can gain after enduring.
When a Christian faithfully endures trials,
he realizes that he has God's approval.
This realization strengthens his initial hope.
Like Paul, we can rejoice despite persecution.
We may encounter hateful words and actions at school,
at work, in our family, or as a result of governmental restrictions.
In Matthew, chapter 5, 11 and 12,
in the sermon on the Mount, Jesus said the following.
Happy are you when people reproach you and persecute you,
and lyingly say every sort of wicked things against you for my sake.
Rejoice and be overjoyed since your reward is great in the heavens.
For in that way, they persecuted the prophets prior to you.
As you watch the following video, note which provisions helped our brother and sister
to rejoice despite this persecution.
Early one morning, armed Russian special forces broke into my home.
They handcuffed me and searched my place.
They took me to the FSB office for interrogation.
Two days later, the court sentenced me to pretrial detention.
I was scared because I didn't know how I would be treated in prison.
Threatening that things would get worse for me,
the officer demanded that I incriminate myself, admit guilt,
and give the names of my fellow believers.
I also really missed my dear wife.
It was so hard without her.
For two months, I didn't have any spiritual food or a Bible.
So I decided to make one.
My wife sent me a notebook, and every day I wrote down verses that I was able to remember.
After I had written about 500 verses, I was given a Bible.
Because I was so spiritually hungry, I read it through in four months.
During this time, I wrote letters to my wife and friends
and shared interesting things that I learned from my reading.
But the letters I received from my friends and my dear wife
gave me the feeling that the brothers and sisters were so close to me,
as if they were in the cells next to me.
I wasn't lonely. I felt as if my friends were right there with me.
Pre-trial detention isolates a person from society,
but it's impossible to isolate someone from Jehovah.
Throughout the day, I prayed to Jehovah many times,
but I especially waited for bad time.
When everyone was in bed and only the nightlight was on,
I could talk to Jehovah as much as I wanted.
There were times when I was all alone in the cell.
And of course, I took advantage of the situation.
I would get down on my knees and would literally cry as I prayed to Jehovah.
I decided to write my requests to God on a sheet of paper
and then mark off the ones that he answered.
I was convinced that Jehovah was very close to me.
I also quietly sang our songs throughout the day.
But when I was all alone, I sang at the top of my voice.
I also tried to give a witness whenever possible.
We discussed a variety of topics,
everything from tattoos to the King of the North.
All my fears and anxieties were for nothing.
I was in detention 343 days and not even a hair fell from my head.
This was the most interesting year of my life,
an excellent school to help refine my spiritual qualities.
I have never felt so close to Jehovah.
What a great honor to uphold God's sovereignty in this way.
What is helping you today to rejoice despite any opposition
you may be experiencing now?
It is your relationship with Jehovah, the Brotherhood,
your heavenly or earthly hope, all these things.
Maybe rejoice in the love of Jehovah and our brothers.
If you are enduring persecution, be assured that your brothers,
not only your friends, not only brothers in your congregation
but all around the earth are praying in your behalf.
Angels observe you and feel proud if you stay faithful.
You can greatly contribute to the encouragement of the faithful angels.
Like Jehovah, Jesus and the angels,
your brothers can take pride in you and rejoice
because of your endurance and faith despite persecution.
Brother William Turner and helper to the Service Committee
will now present the next talk of this symposium
we can rejoice despite hunger.